# Global Electronics Retail Analysis

## Table of contents

- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Data Sources](#data-sources)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Data Preparation](#data-preparation)
- [Data Dictionary](#data-dictionary)
- [Exploratory Data Analysis](#exploratory-data-analysis)
- [Data Analysis](#data-analysis)
- [Results](#results)
- [Recommendations](#recommendations)
- [Limitations](#limitations)


### Project Overview
---

The Analysis will help the global electronics retailer gain insights into sales trends, customer behavior, product performance, and market dynamics, ultimately informing data-driven business decisions.



### Data sources

https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/bhavikjikadara/global-electronics-retailers

### Tools

- Excel -  Data cleaning
- Power Query - Data Analysis
- Power BI - Creating reports

### Data preparation

In the initial data preparation phase, we performed the following tasks
1. Data loading and inspection
2. handling missing values
3. Data cleaning and formatting

### Data dictionary

#### Table	-   Field		-	  Description	

 Sales		Order Number	  Unique ID for each order

Sales		Order Date		Date the order was placed

Sales		CustomerKey		Unique key identifying which customer placed the order

Sales		StoreKey			Unique key identifying which store processed the order

Sales		ProductKey		Unique key identifying which product was purchased

Sales		Quantity			Number of items purchased	

Sales		Currency Code	Currency used to process the order

Customers	CustomerKey		Primary key to identify customers	

Customers	Gender			Customer gender	

Customers	Name			Customer full name	

Customers	City				Customer city	

Customers	State Code		Customer state (abbreviated)

Customers	State			Customer state (full)

Customers	Country			Customer country

Productsale	ProductKey		Primary key to Identity products

Productsale



### Exploratory Data Analysis

EDA involved exploring the retail data to answer questions such as:

-	What is the total revenue generated by the Electronic Retailer.
-	What is the total number of orders placed by the electronic retailer.
-	What is the average order value
-	What is the yearly trend of revenue and orders.
-	What are the top 5 selling products categories globally.
-	Top 5  countries that generates the most sales.
- Which customer segments (age, gender, location, etc.) have the highest purchase value, and how can we target them more effectively?


### Data Analysis

Include some interesting code/features worked with

```power query
dax funtions
revenue = SUM(ProductSales[Sales Amount])
```

### Results


The analysis results are summarized as follows:
1. United states in subcategory washers and dryers made up 9.15% of sum of sales amount.
2. Orders and total revenue are positively correlated with each other.
3. Revenue and orders diverged the most when the year was 2019, when revenue were 2098692 higher than orders. 
### Recommendations 

Based on the analysis, we recommend the following actions:
- Look into the countries with least purchase power and improve adverts and campaigns
- Bring in more products in high demand categories
- Develop strategic partnership by collaborating with suppliers or competitors to improve efficiency and innovation.

### limitations


I had to add the age and age range column because we needed it for the analysis. we also added some columns( sales amount, cost, profit) to help the effectiveness of our analysis. we also added some dax functions coz they would have helped in the accuracy of my conclusions from the analysis.






